xiaoming90

medium

# Supported Features of 0x's Exchange Proxy Introduce Unnecessary Risks

## Summary

Many supported features of 0x's Exchange Proxy can be utilized when executing a 0x trade within the leverage vault which will increase the possible attack surface significantly and increase the risk of the protocol being compromised.

## Vulnerability Detail

Based on the environment setting provided by Notional, it was observed that the 0x DEX address points to [0x's Exchange Proxy](https://docs.0x.org/protocol/docs/exchange-proxy). The 0x's Exchange Proxy supports many features including limit order trade. Refer to https://docs.0x.org/protocol/docs/exchange-proxy/features for a full list of supported features. The following is a non-exhaustive overview of features that may be registered/deployed on the Exchange Proxy:

- NativeOrdersFeature
- BatchFillNativeOrdersFeature
- ERC721OrdersFeature / ERC1155OrdersFeature
- TransformERC20Feature
- MultiplexFeature
- LiquidityProviderFeature
- MetaTransactionsFeature
- OtcOrdersFeature
- UniswapFeature
- PancakeSwapFeature
- SimpleFunctionRegistryFeature
- OwnableFeature
- FundRecoveryFeature

The key security consideration of a leverage vault design is that the users can only execute actions authorized by Notional to mitigate the risks. However, the design of the 0x adaptor goes against this key security consideration, which will introduce many issues and risks to the protocol. 

## Impact

There are at least 10 features supported by 0x Exchange Proxy. This increases the possible attack surface significantly and increases the risk of the protocol being compromised.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/leveraged-vaults/contracts/trading/adapters/ZeroExAdapter.sol#L7

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

It is recommended to prevent users from accessing other features such as LiquidityProviderFeature or OwnableFeature so that users are only restricted to the standard swap feature. By limiting the feature, it will be easier for Notional to restrict its users' interaction with 0x DEX. It is prudent to restrict the number of features that the users can possibly interact with the 0x DEX to reduce the risks.