lemonmon

high

# `TradingUtils::_executeTrade` will leak ETH to WETH

## Summary

If sellToken is ETH, and using Uniswap for the dex, and it is exact out trade, too much is deposited to the WETH and does not withdraw the excess amount. It will give wrong `amountSold` value as well as accounting error.

## Vulnerability Detail

`trade.sellToken` is ETH and using Uniswap as dex, WETH should be used instead of ETH as Uniswap does not support ETH. There for TradingUtils wraps the ETH to WETH before trading.

If the trade would be exact out, the amount `trade.limit` will be deposited to WETH instead of the `trade.amount`. However, because it is exact out, not all ETH deposited will be traded. In the current implementation, there is no logic to recover the excess deposit.

As the `TradingUtils::_executeInternal`, which uses the `TradingUtils::_executeTrade` will calculate the `amountSold` based on the balance of ETH, it will return the `trade.limit` as the `amountSold`, thus resulting in accounting error.

Note: in the current implementation, the trade using Uniswap with ETH as sellToken would not even work, because the WETH is not properly approved (issue 2). This issue assumes that the issue is resolved. 

## Impact

`amountSold` will reflect not the amount really sold, rather the `trade.limit`. It is unclear whether the excess amount of ETH, which is deposited for WETH can be recovered.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/leveraged-vaults/contracts/trading/TradingUtils.sol?plain=1#L118-L137

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/leveraged-vaults/contracts/trading/TradingUtils.sol?plain=1#L29-L64


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

In the `_executeTrade`, if the sellToken is ETH and it is exact out trade, recover excess deposit.
