lemonmon

high

# `TradingUtils::_executeTrade` will withdraw/deposit the whole balance

## Summary

If sellToken is not WETH or ETH, the local variable `preTradeBalance` in `TradingUtils::_executeTrade` remains to be  the default value, which is zero.
If buyToken is WETH or ETH, it will deposit or withdraw the whole balance.
This will result in accounting error of the balance. It will also return the whole balance as `amountBought`, which will be used in other part of contracts.

## Vulnerability Detail


`TradingUtils::_executeTrade` has a local variable `preTradeBalance` (line 125). The value is not set when the variable is defined, so it starts with zero. If `trade.sellToken` is either WETH or ETH (and when the spender's conditions is met), the `preTradeBAlance` will be set. But if the `trade.sellToken` is none of WETH or ETH, the `preTradeBalance` will remain to be zero.

If the `trade.buyToken` is WETH or ETH, the post trade ETH or WETH balance will be compared to the `preTradeBalance`. Unless `trade.sellToken` is WETH or ETH, the `preTradeBalance` will be zero. Since the current balance will be likely bigger than zero, the condition of post trade balance to be bigger than zero will be likely to be met. (line 143 and 152 of TradingUtils.sol)

As the result, the whole balance of ETH will be deposited (if the buyToken is WETH), or the whole balance of WETH will be withdrwan (if the buyToken is ETH). It causes accounting error, as unexpected amount of ETH is withdrawn or deposited..

Moreover, the `TradingUtils::_executeInternal`, which uses `TradingUtils::_executeTrade`, will use the balance of WETH or ETH to determine `amountBought` and return the value as if it will really bought by the trade. So, the returning value `amountBought` will be the whole balance of WETH or ETH.

For example, `TwoTokenPoolUtils::_deposit` in the line 191, uses the returned `amountBought` result to `_joinPoolAndStake`.


## Impact

- Serious accounting error, as well as `amountBought` can be more than actually bought amount

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/leveraged-vaults/contracts/trading/TradingUtils.sol?plain=1#L118-L160

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/leveraged-vaults/contracts/trading/TradingUtils.sol?plain=1#L29-L64


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

In the `TradingUtils::_executeTrade` set the `preTradeBalance`, if the buyToken is WETH or ETH.
