Arbitrary-Execution

medium

# `checkReturnCode` function in `GenericToken` library lacks type safety

## Summary
`checkReturnCode` function in `GenericToken` library lacks type safety

## Vulnerability Detail
The `GenericToken` library has functions that are used to transfer tokens and `ether` to and from addresses. More specifically, the `safeTransferFrom` function is used by the `transferUnderlyingToVaultDirect` function in `VaultConfiguration.sol`, which is used to transfer tokens from an account into a vault. `safeTransferFrom` uses the function `checkReturnCode` to cover cases where a token may not strictly conform to the ERC-20 token standard. It does this by checking the size of the return data and acting accordingly:

```solidity
bool success;
uint256[1] memory result;

assembly {
    switch returndatasize()
        case 0 {
            // This is a non-standard ERC-20
            success := 1 // set success to true
        }
        case 32 {
            // This is a compliant ERC-20
            returndatacopy(result, 0, 32)
            success := mload(result) // Set `success = returndata` of external call
        }
        default {
            // This is an excessively non-compliant ERC-20, revert.
            revert(0, 0)
        }
}
```
However, by performing these actions in assembly, there is no type safety. This means that if the return data is 32 bytes but is not a boolean and should not be converted to one, the conversion will not fail.

Note: While `GenericToken.sol` is not explicitly in-scope, the library is compiled into several files that are in scope.

## Impact
If an excessively non-compliant ERC-20 token returns with data that is 32 bytes, the return data will simply be loaded into `bool success` and be interpreted as a boolean even though the token is non-compliant and the call should revert. However, this scenario is relatively unlikely given that tokens have to be explicitly allowed by Notional.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/notional-finance/contracts-v2/blob/cf05d8e3e4e4feb0b0cef2c3f188c91cdaac38e0/contracts/internal/balances/protocols/GenericToken.sol#L60-L81

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider using [OpenZeppelin's `SafeERC20.sol`](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/token/ERC20/utils/SafeERC20.sol) library, which also checks the return data but uses an `abi.decode` to ensure type safety.
