joestakey

unlabeled

# `BaseStrategyVault.redeemFromNotional()` can fail if `receiver` has a fallback function

## Summary
`BaseStrategyVault.redeemFromNotional()` can fail because of the use of the native ETH `transfer` method.

## Vulnerability Detail
`BaseStrategyVault.redeemFromNotional()` transfers `transferToReceiver` to the `receiver` using the native `transfer()` function. The problem is that `transfer()` only allows the recipient to use 2300 gas. If the recipient uses more than that, transfers will fail. This can be the case if `receiver` is a smart contract wallet that performs some logic in its `fallback()` function - such as splitting payment to the wallet owners.
In the future gas costs might change increasing the likelihood of that happening.

## Proof Of Concept

Run the test in `Transfer.t.sol` from [this private gist](https://gist.github.com/joestakey/6999f4d4995e162ee903f6d9efeb58b9).

It tries to send ETH using a function via `transfer()` to two wallets:
- wallet1, which is a payment splitter wallet that transfers ETH to defined beneficiaries upon receiving ETH.
- wallet2, a simple smart contract wallet with no logic.

You can see that the transfer to `wallet1` fails with an out of gas error, while the transfer to `wallet2` works properly.

```
    ├─ [12002] PoCTransfer::withdraw(Wallet: [0x5b851f32f9ab7fb2c76480c608034a5ed1f16cfc], 1000000000000000000) 
    │   ├─ [2277] Wallet::fallback{value: 1000000000000000000}() 
    │   │   └─ ← "EvmError: OutOfGas"
    │   └─ ← "EvmError: Revert"
    └─ ← "EvmError: Revert"
```

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/leveraged-vaults/contracts/vaults/BaseStrategyVault.sol#L181

## Tool used
Manual Review, Foundry

## Recommendation
Use `call()` instead

```diff
-181:             if (transferToReceiver > 0) payable(receiver).transfer(transferToReceiver);
-182:             if (transferToNotional > 0) payable(address(NOTIONAL)).transfer(transferToNotional);
+181:             if (transferToReceiver > 0) payable(receiver).call{ value: transferToReceiver}(new bytes(0));
+182:             if (transferToNotional > 0) payable(address(NOTIONAL)).call{ value: transferToNotional}(new bytes(0));
```