vlad

unlabeled

# Incorrect voting due to increment logic of proposal IDs

## Summary

Incorrect voting process related to `GovernorAlpha` contract logic due to increment logic of proposal IDs.

## Severity

Medium

## Vulnerability Detail

There is `castVote` and `castVoteBySig` functions in the `GovernorAlpha` contract. The functions accept the `proposalId` which does not contain any information about the proposal itself. As a result, transactions of users can be front-runned to enforce them to vote for the proposal with the same `proposalId` he doesn't want to vote on.

As an example let's consider the following scenario:

Someone (let's call him Bob) sends a `propose` transaction to the mempool. After that someone else (let's call him Charlie) sends a transaction `castVote` with `proposalId` equal to the expected id of the proposal. Then the malicious user can send a transaction with a higher fee that creates a proposal that has the same `proposalId` but different content. This transaction most likely will be included in the block before the transaction from Bob so Charlie will vote for the proposal he doesn't want to vote on.

So, the order of transactions may be the following:
- malicious user `propose` transaction
- Charlie's `castVote` transaction
- Bob's `propose` transaction

Note, that it is not necessarily for Charlie to send `accept` transaction to mempool when Bob's `propose` transaction is not included in the block to get under attack. That also can happen while chain reorg. 

## Impact

The incorrect voting process and, as result, an incorrect result of voting.

## Code Snippet

- [GovernorAlpha::propose newProposalId calculation](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/contracts-v2/contracts/external/governance/GovernorAlpha.sol#L222)
- [GovernorAlpha::castVote](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/contracts-v2/contracts/external/governance/GovernorAlpha.sol#L417)
- [GovernorAlpha::castVoteBySig](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-09-notional/blob/main/contracts-v2/contracts/external/governance/GovernorAlpha.sol#L428)

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider adding into the `newProposalId` calculation logic some special value based on the proposal-related parameters (for example hash of the proposal content).
